Everybody who has personal brand. U know them for a reason.

MSD associated to.
Great at leadership.Cricketer, captain.

AkshaySaini
JS , utube, best teacher

People know me fo these things because I want people to know me for these 3 things.

Personal branding is a consious and intentional effort.
Create a large impact then u will have lot of money.
To ultimately advance their career.
widen their circle of influence.

First know what u want people to know u for.

How to intentionally create your personal brand?
It was a planned intentional effort to become namaste javascript as a brand.

Secrets of the influencer industry: If somebody is a great influence , they create their image like that.

I created an image on linkedin, so i restrict myself posting about random things on linkedin.

Steps for preparing:
1. Research 2. Prepare Content. 3. What I have to teach inside this video. 4. Scripting.

You have to be very unique in your things when you want to create your personal brands.
If u do things in unique way then people will remember you.

Scripting: Detail/ Content Heavy/ Entertaining/ Enjoyable.

Today content is not the only thing that will work.
CONTENT+CONFIDENCE+TEACHING STYLE

A Good Artist is a one. 

Honest: Dont fake things while creating personal brand.
You are already a personal brand.
Find out ways to be Unique.

Good JOB, Honest, Good Nature, Developer, polite, smart, problem solver, coder, programmer,
These are generic hastags.
U should know what personal brand u want to give to people.

How many posts should u write on linkedin in a week? 
What is the strategy of personal branding? 
When u write post on Everyday: U r expecting one of those post to go viral and u accidently become a personal brand.
It is the probability.
So keep on giving interviews.
Suppose if u give 100 interviews what are the chances of getting a job.

Everything is a game. Give 100 interviews.u will crack one.
if u keep failing , u will fail at failing also.

Always put positive things on social media or with everything u write. Dont use negative words, use positive words.
Dont let people treat u as bhaiya/didi.
A Serious/professional teacher.
Every small thing matters.

U would also want to create ur personal brand somewhere in tech.
Put Your Heart And Soul into it.

If am highly motivated, highly enthusiastic, highly amazed about something, I can do it.-> NO
Use motivation as a catalyst to boost yourself up.
Dont seek motivation for everything.
Be conscious about everything u put on social media.

TIP: Give your heart and soul into whatever you do.
Consistency is bigger than anything in the world.

vlogs. Be conscious about everything.
You have to create your personal brand.
Be Unique, Be Honesh, Even before people know u, u should know, what people should know you for.
PB is build strategically, consious effort.
authoritive
You are an artist after a level.
Personal Brand is an attitude.

BE UNIQUE, INTENTIONAL, HONEST, PLAN THINGS.










