BOTS, machines, parsers, ATS.
HR manager, Technical Interviewer.

RESUME SHORTLISTINGG MACHINEWho is going to use this.

ATS: applicant tracking system.
MAke ur resume ATS friendly.

3 types of people:
1. BOTS - ATS friendly
2. Recruiters
3. 1:1 interviewers (Tech + managers)

How to make ATS friendly resume?
1. BOTS:
1. Keywords. (Keep a section in ur resume. Skills section) (REact, REact JS, Javascript, frontend, fullstack, css,
html, tailwind, redux, git, bootstrap).
2.Give proper headings to your resume.

2. Recruiters: 
   avg time is 4-5 seconds.
   For one job opening, recruitment percentage is just 1 %.
   If 100 people r giving interviewers then maximum 1 or 2 people will be selected.
a) Skills. b) College graduation year. c)Work experience section d)Contact Information (address not required)

Dont Put photos in ur resume.

If u r looking for a react developer then first thing should be mentioned in ur skills is REACT.
How many no of years of exp do u have.

NIT, BITS, IIT brand name matters a lot. Recruiters see this.
Put down good CGPA if u have.

Lets talk about interviewers now.

Interviewers + Tech Managers. These two should be the major highlight of your projects.
1. Projects (React Projects) 2. Challenging Project.
(Explain these projects in 3-4 lines)
2. Skills (Tailwind, redux, angular,vue, nextjs, nodejs also) . These people will be impressed.
3. Good Keywords. (Good Technical keywords.)
store, API, config driven UI,router, jest, lazyloading.

I have developed utube clone. I have build an app which is a video streaming platform, which is a high scalable video streaming platform,
I have built a Video Streaming App, scalable, optimized.

u have developed large/high scalable, performant, fast loading, highly optimized search using debouncing.
Deploy on free domains. Netlify and give a link along with each project.
we have implemented caching using redux store. 
Ur website is responsive, it has light/dark color theme. 

n level nested comments. 
4. Link along with each project.
 Github link
 Working Demo link.

My app loads in less than 200ms or 100ms.
Measure the performace, web page loading time. Its there in developer console.
Lighthouse, check waterflow model in network tab for time.

Why ur app is fast? What r u using.
shimmer effect, lazy loading , search using debouncing, caching using redux store, bundle chunking, how reconciliation is working,
first paint load time.
I have applied lazy loading , I have applied suspense.

I choose to use tailwind instead of material ui.
Why tailwind?
I was trying tailwind
You dont have to write css again and again, it just shifts the amount of css u wrote, u can develop very fast using tailwind.
The classes size blots up but the developer time building it is very fast.
Tailwind: trending and more customization.

I am using React along with parcel, webpack and bundlers.

React-router-dom for routing.
Talk about reconciliation alg, react fibre,
action , dispatch, reducers.
About microservice architecture, how did u build config driven ui


Managers: 
1. Communication skills
2. Behavioural skills.
3. Good Leader or not

I have developed a project from scratch, it is production 
Leading a team.
Taken ownership.
Mentor
90% code coverage.
code quality,
Helped ur juniors onboard into team.
Mentored other people
Taken initiative.
Collaboarated with ur product managers, designers and led the UI project.
spoke with clients.

Dont put in random stuff in ur resume.

Extra stuff: Major ones. Dont write participation certifications. Random udemy or something.
Certifications/: u r really proud of. like AWS certificate and so on.
Achievements: employee of the quarter award.
2000 questions on leetcode, github links.
live project links.

What u have to not do:
Hobbies, address, random achievements, marital status, ur cool photo, time of birth, date of birth.
won rangoli competition in district, declaration, gender, refrences.

Best part is: linkedin Endorsements.

Dont put objective in ur resume. It is not impressing anyone.

Only : One page resume. 

sections:
1. Work experience: company names: and then Projects
2. SKILLS or college degree.
3. 


top: name, phone email id, linkedin

Project section.
CLG
SKill 
Certifications/Achievements.

1. Name, contact, email, linkedin
2. Work experience - company name, projects
3. Education College degree/schooling.
4. SKILLS
4. Achievements/Certifications

technical blogs.
reputation on github star.

SIDE or personal projects.

Every word that u write should have a meaning to it.

when u change ur perspective, ur resume will change.

In discord, in assignment section. put down ur resume.
Also go to other resumes and give them feedback.
Interviews: 
Dont try to make ur resume which is disturbing for the eyes.

so many people r color blind.
only put black and white.

Interviews: U have to give a good introduction.

Introduction is the great chance to get urself comfortable with the interviewer.

Tell me about urself?
Ur introduction: Prepare for it.
Dont start with ur name.
TOP DOWN Approach: 
1. Start describing high level details about u and of the projects u r working on.
2. What team r u working in?
3. talk about projects 
4. What is the challenging stuff u have done in ur project. (obstacles faced)

I was implementing search bar , so it will increase no of calls , then i used debouncing and i further implemented caching.
because search is widely used so to reduce network calls.

I was trying to build lot of forms, then i got alibrary called formik.

Compoany/Team/Projects.

Im currently working as a Senior development engineer 2 at Medibuddy. Before MeDibuddy i was working in sincro digital.
I am working as part of the 6 member opstech team where im leading two UI Projects.
One of them is accounting rule portal which helps us setup etc.



You can talk about second projects also.

Now these projects were build using reactJs, we also use node js, we also use etc.

I have build a utube type of application. In that projects im implemented major cool features like search feature using debouncing,
chunking, lazy loading to optimize my app.

Keep digging it until the interviewer stops u.

u r unfolding the levels one by one.

Take pauses in between.

Now interviewer will ask u about ur projects. That will be a good icebreaker.

Ask ur m,anagers/product managers about the impact of the project.
U should know that why r u building that project.

I was leading a team of 2, i was involved into group dis, code reviews, design disc, mentoring juniors.

What if u r changing ur domain?

System design would be same.

Talk about something which will impress the interviewer.

About freshers. Do reverse engineering.


Towards the End. Ask good questions:

1. Use this time to know more about team /company.
2. what is the recent project u r working on?
3. Do u use any testting frameowrk in ur company?
4. Do u do system design?
5. R there any code reviewes practices u r using?
6. What all technologies ur companies r using?
what is ur team focusing on?
What tech stack r u working on?
Do u use redux or u use something else to manage data?
How deployment cycle works in ur company?

Dont ask about holidays, laptops

Before Interview: Plan urself ahead. Be calm, dont learn extra stuff. Pray to God for inner peace.
Kepp notebook and pen ready. Kepp water bottles, Keep ur laptop charged, Keep wifi backup.
Test it down properly, some random platforms. Always use an external microphone.
Use headset.

dress decent.
Dont have ur goggles on. 
Dont have tshirt woth random slogans written it.

Quote: 15mins of call will decide what u r going to earn for the next 4-5 yrs.

KRAS and KPI: Target.

There is always a scope of increment 100% of the time.

Always ask what is the maximum budget u have for this role.
The first offer is not the final offer.

it is no bodys fault if u r underpaid. First have confidence that u can earn more.

There is a range. no fixed ctc for a role. Try to put urself higher on that range.
How would u do that. First of all with knowledge.

do research, Fishbowl, GlassDoor, AmbitionBox
LEVELS.FYI

What the company is offering u. It is at the higher end or lower end. If ur previous ctc is already high then sometimes,
It is less scope of increment.

Dont go with empty hand before going to negotiation call.

Ask for what u deserve. That's okay.
Negotiation is not unprofessional.

Always quote a higher number.

we cant offer u more than 30% of ur CTC that is bullshit.

quote a number. dont tell in terms of percentage.
40LPA.

Never fall in that trap that it will increase more.
be conscious that eshops r not part of ur salary.

Uber stocks r listed in stock exchange. I can trade in.

If company is startup then eshops is just paper money.

Always negotiate on base salary that hits ur account.
At the end of the day those eshops will turn to 0. when u leave ur job, u canot carry ur eshops.

Buyback eshops. Companies buy those eshops and will give u money in return of that.
Have a firm voice.
I deserve this.

Never look for percentage hike, always see numbers.

quote a no directly.
Dont justify urself.
Everyday u will put ur heart and soul into the work.

if u say no to that offer letter.

If u r reducing ur notice period ask for a joining bonus always.

if u have confidence in ur skills, u will always get hired.

The world is looking for good software engineers.
Because there are very less good software engineers available.

If u r a good software enginner then u will always be in demand.




































